An asthma inhaler
delivers a metered dose of medicine
in a mist that your child inhales
into the airways of the lungs.
Here are the steps for using
a metered dose inhaler:
Remove the caps from the chamber
and the metered dose inhaler.
Shake the inhaler vigorously.
Hold the inhaler upright
with the mouthpiece at the bottom.
Insert the mouthpiece of the inhaler
into the rubber-sealed end of the chamber.
Waste 2 puffs in the chamber
if the inhaler has either never been used,
or not used for a week or more.
The wasted puffs don’t count as doses.
With your child standing
or sitting up upright,
place the chamber into the child's mouth.
Have your child breathe slowly
in and out of the valved
holding chamber several times.
While your child is breathing in slowly,
press the inhaler down once
to release the medicine into the chamber.
After you’ve sprayed the medicine,
have your child breathe in as
deeply as possible
and then hold their breath
for 10 seconds.
Children who cannot hold their breath
should breathe in and out slowly
for 3 to 5 breaths.
If additional puffs have been prescribed,
wait 1 minute and repeat these steps.